docs/Next-Step-Server.md, before:

# NextStep Server

Next Step Server resolves the Next Step of the authentication process, handled authentication using credentials and OTP authorization codes, and manages user identities.

You can obtain the war file which can be deployed to a Java EE container in [releases](https://github.com/wultra/powerauth-webflow/releases).

The configuration of Next Step Server is described in [Next Step Configuration](./Web-Flow-Configuration.md#next-step-server).

Next step definitions need to be configured before deploying Next Step Server, see chapter [Configuring Next Step](Configuring-Next-Step.md).

## Next Step Server functionality

Next Step Server implements following functionality:
- management of next steps during authentication process
  - step definitions are loaded from database when Next Step Server starts
  - making decision about the next step of an operation given loaded step definitions, operation name, operation type, operation status and step authentication result
- management of authentication methods
  - create an authentication method
  - listing available authentication methods both general and user-specific
  - enabling/disabling authentication methods per user including their configuration (configuration is required for the [Mobile Token](./Mobile-Token-Configuration.md))
  - get a list of authentication methods currently enabled for the user  
  - delete an authentication method
- management of operations
  - create a new operation
  - update an operation based on the next step decision
  - retrieve operation detail
  - list pending operations for user
  - retrieve operation configuration for an operation or all defined operations
  - update operation form data
  - update user and organization for an operation
  - update application context for an operation
  - set chosen authentication method
  - update mobile token status for an operation
  - retrieve mobile token configuration
  - get and update detailed authentication method and operation configuration
  - authentication method downgrade for the next step
  - enable PowerAuth token for the next step   
  - integration with PowerAuth operations   
  - store result of an AFS action
- management of organizations
  - create an organization
  - list organizations
  - retrieve organization detail
  - delete an organization
- management of user identity
  - user identity CRUD operations
  - user contact CRUD operations
  - user alias CRUD operations
  - assignment of user roles
  - blocking and unblocking of user identity
  - obtaining user credential list
  - obtaining user authentication history
  - update status of multiple user identities
  - lookup of user identities
- management of Next Step applications  
- management of credential policies
- management of OTP policies
- management of credential definitions
- management of OTP definitions
- configuration of hashing algorithm parameters
- secure storage of user credentials
- secure storage of OTP authorization codes, their delivery via Data Adapter and OTP state management
- storage of failed attempt counters, their update and reset
- configuration of next step definitions
- definition of user roles
- authentication using credentials, OTP authorization codes and combine credential and OTP authentication

REST services are available for all Next Step functionality listed above.

The Next Step Server functionality is described in details in [Next Step Server REST API Reference](./Next-Step-Server-REST-API-Reference.md).


## OpenID Connect (OIDC)

You may configure OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication.

| Property                                                                                   | Default value            | Description                                                                                                                   |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `powerauth.nextstep.security.auth.type`                                                    |                          | `OIDC` for OpenID Connect. If OIDC enabled, the properties bellow must be configured.                                         |
| `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.nextstep-oidc-client.provider`                 | `nextstep-oidc-provider` | Should be `nextstep-oidc-provider`, defines the key for the `issuer-uri` property, see below.                                 |
| `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.nextstep-oidc-client.client-id`                |                          | Client ID for authentication to the provider.                                                                                 |
| `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.nextstep-oidc-client.client-secret`            |                          | Client secret for authentication to the provider.                                                                             |
| `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.nextstep-oidc-client.authorization-grant-type` | `authorization_code`     | Authorization grant type. Should be `authorization_code`.                                                                     |
| `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.nextstep-oidc-client.scope`                    | `openid`                 | Authorization scopes. Should be `openid`.                                                                                     |
| `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.nextstep-oidc-client.redirectUri`              |                          | Redirect URI from the provider back to the NextStep, e.g. `http://localhost:8080//powerauth-nextstep/login/oauth2/code/azure` |
| `spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.nextstep-oidc-provider.issuer-uri`                 |                          | URL of the provider, e.g. `https://sts.windows.net/example/`                                                                  |

See the [Spring Security documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/servlet/oauth2/index.html#oauth2-client-log-users-in) and [OpenID Connect UserInfo endpoint](https://connect2id.com/products/server/docs/api/userinfo) for details.

Commit message:

Fix #1593: Reconfigure OIDC to resource-server

docs/Next-Step-Server.md, after:

# NextStep Server

Next Step Server resolves the Next Step of the authentication process, handled authentication using credentials and OTP authorization codes, and manages user identities.

You can obtain the war file which can be deployed to a Java EE container in [releases](https://github.com/wultra/powerauth-webflow/releases).

The configuration of Next Step Server is described in [Next Step Configuration](./Web-Flow-Configuration.md#next-step-server).

Next step definitions need to be configured before deploying Next Step Server, see chapter [Configuring Next Step](Configuring-Next-Step.md).

## Next Step Server functionality

Next Step Server implements following functionality:
- management of next steps during authentication process
  - step definitions are loaded from database when Next Step Server starts
  - making decision about the next step of an operation given loaded step definitions, operation name, operation type, operation status and step authentication result
- management of authentication methods
  - create an authentication method
  - listing available authentication methods both general and user-specific
  - enabling/disabling authentication methods per user including their configuration (configuration is required for the [Mobile Token](./Mobile-Token-Configuration.md))
  - get a list of authentication methods currently enabled for the user  
  - delete an authentication method
- management of operations
  - create a new operation
  - update an operation based on the next step decision
  - retrieve operation detail
  - list pending operations for user
  - retrieve operation configuration for an operation or all defined operations
  - update operation form data
  - update user and organization for an operation
  - update application context for an operation
  - set chosen authentication method
  - update mobile token status for an operation
  - retrieve mobile token configuration
  - get and update detailed authentication method and operation configuration
  - authentication method downgrade for the next step
  - enable PowerAuth token for the next step   
  - integration with PowerAuth operations   
  - store result of an AFS action
- management of organizations
  - create an organization
  - list organizations
  - retrieve organization detail
  - delete an organization
- management of user identity
  - user identity CRUD operations
  - user contact CRUD operations
  - user alias CRUD operations
  - assignment of user roles
  - blocking and unblocking of user identity
  - obtaining user credential list
  - obtaining user authentication history
  - update status of multiple user identities
  - lookup of user identities
- management of Next Step applications  
- management of credential policies
- management of OTP policies
- management of credential definitions
- management of OTP definitions
- configuration of hashing algorithm parameters
- secure storage of user credentials
- secure storage of OTP authorization codes, their delivery via Data Adapter and OTP state management
- storage of failed attempt counters, their update and reset
- configuration of next step definitions
- definition of user roles
- authentication using credentials, OTP authorization codes and combine credential and OTP authentication

REST services are available for all Next Step functionality listed above.

The Next Step Server functionality is described in details in [Next Step Server REST API Reference](./Next-Step-Server-REST-API-Reference.md).


## OpenID Connect (OIDC)

You may configure OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication.

| Property                                                | Default value | Description                                                                           |
|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `powerauth.nextstep.security.auth.type`                 |               | `OIDC` for OpenID Connect. If OIDC enabled, the properties bellow must be configured. |
| `spring.security.oauth2.resource-server.jwt.issuer-uri` |               | URL of the provider, e.g. `https://sts.windows.net/example/`                          |
| `spring.security.oauth2.resource-server.jwt.audiences`  |               | A comma-separated list of allowed `aud` JWT claim values to be validated.             |

See the [Spring Security documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/servlet/oauth2/index.html#oauth2-client-log-users-in) and [OpenID Connect UserInfo endpoint](https://connect2id.com/products/server/docs/api/userinfo) for details.
